# Kicking off TEGG 2019 | Angela Kreitenweis

Link: <http://bit.ly/2PxBtoZ>

## Introduction

* The purpose of the TE community is to develop token engineering as a discipline in it's own right.
* The first TEGG was during NYC blockchain week in the 2018. A second conference took place in Berlin as well.
* Growing world wide community.
  * Currently 17 meetup groups from 13 countries (the first originating 15 months ago).
  * Range of projects working on crypto-economic models; sharing knowledge and open sourcing their work.
    * CadCAD
    * Protea
    * Commons Stack
  * Research
    * Collaboration between practioners and researchers is important to drive Token Engineering.
      * Very important, and yet difficult for researchers and builders to engage seemlessly.
    * Two main organizations currently involved:
      * BlockScience (Michael Zargham)
      * Crypto Economic Research Lab (University of Vienna)
      * See Sherman's talk.

## What is Token Engineering

* Requires multi-disciplinary effort
  * Domain Expertise
  * Engineering
  * Economics
  * Computer Science
  * Data Science

## Call to Action

* The tech should be a catalyst for future activities.
  * The starting point for contibuting and collaborating to this community.

## Whats the Future for Token Engineering

* The desire is to see TE in every single blockchain project as its own domain and its own role.
  * Very much like software development.
* Specific tools, frameworks and processes are needed.
* Token Engineering IS Complex Systems Engineering!
  * We are building social complex networks and engineering "power" in such systems.
* Tokens will..
  * Grant access.
  * Define rights.
  * Define decision making.
  * Economic (and other) Incentives.
* "Incentive Machines".
  * "will make people do stuff".
* We still have yet to understand how these token economic systems will define our world in the next decades.
* We can and should use this power consciously, in contributing to solve the global, major, complex problems of our time.
  * Create new economies, not defined by nation borders, for..
    * Sustainability.
    * Freedom.
    * Justice.
* We need to tackle "complexity".
  * We need to EMBACE complexity!
* We have the chance to..
  * Redifine the rules of the twenty first century.
  * Redefine the flaws in our systems.
