# Token Economics: Web3 Business Models & New Scientific Discipline | Dr Shermin Voshmgir

Link: <http://bit.ly/2PzAUev>

## Web History

* Web 1
  * Information Economy
  * Communication
  * Hello World!
* Web 2
  * Platform Economy
  * Interactions
  * Frontend revolution
* Web 3
  * Token Economy
  * Values & Access Rights
  * Backend revolution

## Tokens

* Have been around
  * Asset Tokens
    * Sea Shells
    * Vouchers
    * Casino chips
    * Royalty programs
  * Computing Tokens
  * Cognitive Psychology
    * Positive reinforcement techniques
      * incentivize behavior
* Blockchain allows us to combine these various token use-cases.
  * with very low transaction costs because of the "copy-right" and "anti-conterfitting" measures blockchain networks provide.

* A rights ranagement tool that gives you access to something you, someone else or a collective owns.
  * Very powerful tools
  * First we had fungible tokens, and now were seeing non-fungible tokens take hold.
    * ..maybe tied to an identity (of some sort)
    * etc
* Issuing tokens has become cheap and easy
* The engineering of the this token is very much still a questsion.. the social engineering.
  * What is the token's purpose?
  * What should the properties of a token be?
  * We can now derive some business and revenue models.. what do they look like around these tokens?
* Conventionally, tokens have been referred to, or classified like a regulatory program.. security token, utility token, etc..
  * This is NOT where we should start
  * We should start with looking at tokens in a more generic way and theoretical way
    * ..like asking "What is it we can actually do with these tokens".
    * We could categorize tokens as "simple tokens" or "complex tokens"
    * Simple Tokens
      * Types
        * Asset tokens
          * A piese of art
          * security token
          * a share in a piece of real estate.
        * Access rights token
          * Concert
          * Perform operations in a network.
      * Requires
        * Legal Engineering
    * Complex Tokens
      * Purpose driven
      * Requires economic engineering

## Purpose Driven Tokens (PDTs)

* Bitcoin is an example
* Enables having a coordination tool for networks
  * For steering coordinated actions of people.. who wish to achieve a common goal.
  * Moving away from top down organizations to ones where coordinated action in a network of untrusted actors
    * ..that are governed by the token governance rules that incentivize individual behavior towards collective action.
* Types
  * Universal State Layer (Bitcoin, Ethereum)
  * Social Media Tokens (Steemit)
  * Attention Tokens (BAT)
  * Token Curated Registries
  * CO2 Tokens (City of Vienna)
* Our current economy perdominantly works by incentivizing individual action towards creating private goods.
* Public goods and services are generally created by public institutions
  * e.g. railroads and healthcare, etc.
  * Usually run by trusted third parties, with taxpayers money.
* PDTs transcend the common forms of social organization of "capitalism" or "communism".
  * Incentivizes individual action towards a collective goal.
* This new research of "Purpose Driven Networks" is very very exciting!

## Blockchains Networks Are Complex Systems

* Simple systems can use reductionist tools to map, plan organize and steer them.
* Classification of Systems:
  * Systems
    * Complex Systems
      * Social Systems
        * Economic Systems
          * Blockchain Systems
            * Adaptive
            * Network (Multi-graph)
            * Multiscale in space & time
            * Stochastic
            * Dynamic
* Complex Systems
  * System behaviors cannot be easily impied freom the state changes induced by network actors.
  * Approaches that ignore such difficulties, or characterizes them as noise, will produce ineffective models.
* Blockchain systems are complex socio-economic systems
* They are rich and (almost) real time data set reflecting all economic activities in their systems.
  * This is something we've never had before!
  * Allows us to apply new tools and techniques in steering these economies
    * Our analog economies of our nation states tools cannot without the realtime data.

## New Economic Tools

* Tools used in macro-economics to steer the economy are redutionist.
  * They needed to be because there was no dataset to build on!
  * They did not have the compute power or data science either
    * ..to make sense of everything that was happening in an economy.
* But now we have the foundational tools to do really cool things!

## A New Scientific Discipline | Economic System Engineering

* Combination of economic methods & engineering methods
  * Enables the steering/regulation/control of these complex systems.
* Build powerful consensus mechanism, beyond blockchain, that is not only resilient, but more..
  * flexible
  * adaptive
  * AND non-linear (my words, she said complex systems)
  * Reference Works:
    * Elenor Austrum
    * Friedrich Hayek
    * etc
* We now have the tools the some economists have only been able dream about

## Token Economics

* Subset of Economics & and emerging field.
* What is it?
  * Studies of economic institutions, poicies, and ethics in the context of the production, distribution and consumption of goods and services, that have been tokenized.
* In economics there are many, many schools of thought
  * The TE research community are investigating all of these schools of thought
    * Which can and should be applied to tokenized systems.
* Isn't it just econonomics?
  * It is unclear how tokenization of goods & services might affect the overall dynamics of our current economic system.

## Mission Critical & Safety Critical Systems

* Builtin economic incentives layer!
  * Failure of these systems might provoke substantial collateral economic damage!
    * E.g. "The DAO".
    * Protocol update debates (ethereum, etc)
* Need completely different rigor and research development for these systems
  * Disciplined scientificic/engineering practices must be maintained!
  * "Rigorous Economic System Engineering"

## Non-Fungible Tokens

* Examples
  * Identity
  * Rewards Token
    * E.g. City of Vienna looking to incentivize people to walk, or bike or use public transportation via an app.
      * Rewarded by non-fungible tokens because there should be no market in their use case so it can not be used as money.
      * Rather, they are going to tie it to an identity.

## Token Properties

How do you want to design the token?

| *Perspective* | | |
--- | --- | --- |
| Technical | Protocol token | Second layer token |
| Rights | Property right | Access right |
| Fungibility | Identical | Not identical |
| Transferability | Transferable | Non-transferable |
| Durability | Expiration date | No expiration date |
| Regulatory | Easy to classify and regulate | Hard to classify and regulate |
| Incentive | Minted upon proof-or-certain behavior (value creation) | Represents exising assets or access rights |
| Supply | Fixed | Unlimited |
| Token Flow | Linear | Circular |

## Questions

* Is there to be discussion of economic philosophies?
  * Michael Zargham and Dr. Voshmgir are working on a research roadmap
    * To be published in September
      * References include
        * Hayeck
        * Wiener
        * Cybernetics
        * Austrum
  * Austrian school of economic theory, developed around Hyack, would have loved to have had the tools we have today.
    * As is probably the case for Austrum and "public good" theory. and complexity theory
