# Fundraising for Token Ecosystems | Jamie Burke, Erick Zhang, Richard Muirhead, Jonathan Gabler

Link: <http://bit.ly/2PwDhhV>

People:

* Jonathan Gabler (Block Science)
* Richard Muirhead (Outlier Adventures)
* Erick Zhang (Binance)
* Jamie Burke (Fabric Ventures?)

* At the beginning of most projects, differnt types of capital need to come together
* Crypto-market fundraising is yet unclear
* This talk will be a discussion of..
  * What has happened over the last two years.
  * Where are we right now.
  * Where are the friction points for..
    * decentralized projects needing capital?
    * investors wanting participate?
* We currently have ICOs and IEOs
* What are the transitions that we've seen over the last two years?
  * The market is evolving
  * Things are getting more sophisticated.
    * Tech
    * Token designs and function beyond simple fundraising
    * And wild volatile markets
  * It's difficult to issue new tokens
    * Regulations are essentially requiring projects to be fully developed before issuing a token.
    * Requires mostly private investment
    * Funds raised usually corrolate with the swings of the crytpo market.. volatile.
    * Founders have to tend to..
      * The concerns of early stage investors when the market is rough, etc.
      * The distribution
      * Concern for secondary market availablility and general support from exchanges.
      * Kind of forced to IEOs these days do to the need of a secondary market.
  * The conventional investment model of periodic investment inflows (and verification) is appropriate.
  * We now have the ability to turn the concept of debt and equity to somekind of trivial financial instrument.
    * Much broader universe including many different stakeholders.
  * We can now employ "Collective Capitalism"
    * More effective for the business
    * Progressive and equitable for society in whole
    * This is enabled by the infinitely programmable nature of the underlying token
  * IEOs are heavily backchecked
* Token Distribution
  * Dilemma
    * Tokens need to raise capital
    * Tokens are also inherent parts of the "incentive machine"
  * For an IEO, How does an exchange, who is probably looking at optimal distribution, see distribution accross the various roles of the token?
    * They sometimes work with the project in token design according to market conditions
      * In a down turn they might suggest initial distribution to about 10% of the total supply
  * If using token for some funding and mostly incentive mechanism..
    * Determine what fundamental properties are required of your token design
      * Payment token?
      * Work token?
      * Burn for value alteration?
      * Consider not only rounds of capital rasing, but also rounds of option allocation (strategic partners)
  * There is variability in stake holders
    * e.g. users and investors
    * National constraints
      * e.g. United States regulations
* Valuation | Fundamentals for crypto capital markets
  * Does market price currently match network value?
    * Very little correlation atm.
    * Thin liquidity provides for gaming the market.
      * How do you, for instance, design that out of the system?
    * Emperical data is limited
    * Valuing the network fundamentally with various properties of the projects properties.
    * IICOs | Interactive ICOs
      * Market valuation mechanism (before lauch?).
    * Many assumptions made designing networks are often wrong.
    * To rigid in goverance structure.
    * Adaptive models will be coming.
  * Macro economics don't fit well with crypto
    * Traditional money doesn't have..
      * Programmability
      * Customization
      * Adaptability
      * Ability to be involved in work
      * To be burned
      * To reward
        * Computing resource
        * Reputation
    * Traditional economics doesn't have "feed-back loops".
    * Need a governance model that is
      * Adaptive
      * Responsive
    * ..then we can have economic systems that are more..
      * Quantifiable
      * Adjustable
