# Why Should We Care about Token Distribution? | Cassidy Daly, Centrifuge

Link: <http://bit.ly/2PCIQf0>

* Agenda
  * Token Distribution
  * Wealth Distribution
  * Token Distribution Mechanisms
  * Q & A

## Token Distribution

* Different token models, like..
  * Adaptive token (chain)
  * Stable token
  * Private messaging
* Token Distribution is..
  * The comparison of ownership of tokens among unique individuals or entities in a token based economy.
* Token Generation Event is..
  * The moment of the initial dispersement of the token to its first owners through a token distribution mechanism.
  * E.g.
    * Genises block with allocation to entities
    * Token sale
  * Goals
    * Raise funding
    * Determine a market price for the token
      * Incentivize user participation
    * Distribute the token!
  * Primary objective
    * Should be to get the token into the hands of users who will benefit from and add value to the token economy.

## Wealth Distribution

### Germany Case Study

* East and west renuited
  * East was a planned Soviet economy
* Unified east and west money with 2/1 for GDR giving east a disadvantage
  * Wages in the east became 50% less than in the west.
* 30 years later, east still lags behind west in productivity and income growth
  * [examples were given]
* Great wealth disparity
* Growth of Germany has declined

### Economic Analysis

* Inequality hurts all growth
  * Paper: Asset Distribution, Inequality and Growth | Dininger (World Bank)
  * Paper: New Ways of Looking at Old Issues: Inequality and growth | Dininger
  * Paper: Land Reforms, Poverty Reduction, and Economic Growth: Evidence from India | Dininger
  * Paper: Land Distribution Inequality and Economic Growth Transmission channels and Effects | Pacific Economic Review
  * Paper: Distributive Politics and Economic Growth
  * Paper: Income Distribution and Macroeconomics

### Why the concentration of wealth hinders growth

* TLDR.. Wealth distribution IS linked to economic growth
* Even a 1% disparity in wealth inquality will compound over years!
* Why?
  * Long term growth requires investment in the short run inorder to grow in the long run
  * Capital must be deployed efficiently into areas that will produce value.

## Token Distribution Mechanisms

* The tools that we have
* The initial condition of the token based system matters.

### The OG; Mining

* Goals:
  * Fair & wide distribution
* Downfalls
  * Pre-mines
  * Lack of information
  * Expensive
  * Centralized hardware

### ICOs

* Goals
  * Fund raising
  * Distribution to engaged investors
* Downfalls
  * Ties token to funding
    * Not good for some types of projects
  * Open to speculation

### AirDrops

* Goals
  * Extrememly wide distribution
  * Marketing for the project
  * Incentivize potential users
* Downfalls
  * Distribution too wide
    * Tokens weren't cared about
    * Founders simply made money and bailed
    * Bad for community

### MerkleMine

* Goals
  * Seperate the fund raising from the distribution
  * Users would still pay a little in computation power for the tokens
* Downfalls
  * Still open to speculation
  * Early centralized without proper communication

### Lock Drop

* Goals
  * Paying with the value of another currency

## Token Concentrations

* All of the above token distribution mechanisms have led to token concentration!
  * See paper: Kyle? from "Multicoin"
* We are a pretty heavily concentrated industry

## Q & A
